.TH ptreport 1 "2023-07-23" "Jamie Hardt" "User Manuals"
.SH NAME 
ptreport \- Pro Tools report generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.SY ptreport
.I "[options]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B ptreport
is a report generator for Pro Tools. It communicates with Pro Tools with PTSL,
reads clip names and times from the currently-open session and emits 
typesetting commands in the 
.BR groff "(1)"
language.
.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-h, \-\-help"
Print the help message and exit
.SS TIMECODE FORMATS
.IP "\-\-timecode"
Print clip start and finish as timecodes (this is the default)
.IP "\-\-feet\-frames"
Print clip start and finish in feet+frames format
.IP "\-\-min\-secs"
Print clip start and finish in mins:secs format
.IP "\-\-bars\-beats"
Print clip start and finish in bars+beats format
.SH DETAILED DESCRIPTION
.\" .I To be written
.\" .SS MOTIVATION
.\" .I To be written
.\" .SS THEORY OF OPERATION
.\" .I To be written 

.B ptreport 
reads the selected tracks in the session currently open in Pro Tools and 
creates
.BR "groff" "(1)"
typesetting instructions from the clip names. By default, the clips are read 
from the session track by track, and then by time from beginning to the end
of the session.

For example, if you were to have a session with two tracks "Audio 1" and
"Audio 2" selected, all of the clips on "Audio 1" would be read, in timeline 
order and converted into typesetting, and then once all of the tracks on 
"Audio 1" had been read, 
.B ptreport 
would go to the next track and then typeset each of the clips on "Audio 2" in 
turn.

At this time, a clip's muted status, or the show/hide or any other status of a 
given track has any effect on the output.

.SS CLIP NAME PREFIX CODES
The first character in a clip name can determines how the text of the clip 
is inserted into the output document.

Unless otherwise indicated, all clip text is typeset after available 
.I substitutions 
have been applied (see 
.B substitutions
below.)
.IP "-"
The text of this clip will be sent to the typesetter as a comment.
.IP "#"
The text of this clip will be typeset as a numbered header. The number of hash 
symbols used indicates the heading level and is clamped to five.
.IP "%"
The remaining text of this clip will be typeset as an un-numbered sub-section
heading. The number of percent symbols used indicates the heading level and is
clamped to five.
.IP "["
The text of this paragraph will be typeset as an un-indented paragraph.
.IP "]"
The text of this paragraph will be typeset as an indented paragraph.
.IP "*"
The remaining text of this clip will be typset as a bulleted, indented
paragraph.
.IP "!"
The remaining text of this clip will be sent directly to the typesetter. This 
can be used to send requests, set registers or invoke macros on the typesetter;
it's also the way to append text to the previous clip. Every subsequent "!" in 
the clip name will be replaced with a newline in the typesetter stream.
.\" .EE
.\" !.nr PD 4n 
.\" .I (Sets the paragraph spacing to 4n.)
.\" .EX
.IP ">"
The remaining text of this clip will be typeset as a blockquote. 
.IP "/"
the remaining text of this clip will be inserted as an indented paragraph, 
under a line containing the clip's start and finish time aligned with the left 
margin, creating a hanging indent. This typesetting is accomplished with the 
.BR ptreport "-defined"
.I ".eio"
macro.
.IP "[Any Other Character]"
the 
.B full 
text (including the first character) of this clip will be inserted as an 
indented paragraph, under a line containing the clip's start time aligned with 
the left margin, creating a hanging indent. This typesetting is accomplished 
with the 
.BR ptreport "-defined"
.I ".ei"
macro.
.SS SUBSTITUTIONS
The following special text strings will be substituted in any clip name with 
the corresponding value from the clip and track data.
.IP $session 
The name of the session.
.IP $track
The name of the track this clip is on.
.IP $i
The start text string.
.IP $o
The finish text string.
.SS TEXT ENCODING
Text is acquired from Pro Tools as UTF-8. In order to display these characters 
correctly in the 
.I troff 
typsetter thse must be convrted to the appropriate escapes or interploations 
with either 
.BR preconv "(1)"
or by using GNU 
.BR groff "(1)'s" " -K"
option.
.\" .SS EXAMPLES
.SH EXIT STATUS
.IP 0
Success.
.IP 2 
Pro Tools gRPC connection could not be established.
.SH AUTHOR
Jamie Hardt <https://github.com/iluvcapra>
.SH BUGS
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR "groff" "(1),"
.BR "groff_ms" "(7)"
